.\" Manpage for xq utility
.TH XQ 1 "06 Nov 2022" "" "xq man page"
.SH NAME
xq - command-line XML and HTML beautifier and content extractor
.SH SYNOPSIS
xq [\fIoptions...\fR] [\fIfile\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Formats the provided \fIfile\fR and outputs it in the colorful mode.
The file can be provided as an argument or via stdin.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB--version\fR | \fB-v\fR
.RS 4
Prints versions information and exits.
.RE
.PP
\fB--help\fR | \fB-h\fR
.RS 4
Prints the synopsis and a list of options and exits.
.RE
.PP
\fB--indent\fR \fIint\fR
.RS 4
Uses the given number of spaces for indentation (default 2).
.RE
.PP
\fB--no-color\fR
.RS 4
Disables colorful output (only formatting).
.RE
.PP
\fB--tab\fR
.RS 4
Uses tabs instead of spaces for indentation.
.RE
.PP
\fB--xpath\fR | \fB-x\fR \fIstring\fR
.RS 4
Extracts the node(s) from XML using provided XPath query.
.RE
.PP
\fB--extract\fR | \fB-e\fR \fIstring\fR
.RS 4
Extracts a single node from XML using provided XPath query.
.RE
.PP
\fB--query\fR | \fB-q\fR \fIstring\fR
.RS 4
Extract the node(s) using CSS selector.
.RE
.PP
\fB--html\fR | \fB-m\fR
.RS 4
Uses HTML formatter instead of XML.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Format an XML file and highlight the syntax:

.RS 4
$ xq test/data/xml/unformatted.xml
.RE
.PP
Utility also accepts input through stdin:

.RS 4
$ curl -s https://www.w3schools.com/xml/note.xml | xq
.RE
.PP
HTML content can be formatted and highlighted using -m flag:

.RS 4
$ xq -m test/data/html/formatted.html
.RE
.PP
Extract the text content of all nodes with city name:

.RS 4
$ cat test/data/xml/unformatted.xml | xq -x //city
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBhttps://github.com/sibprogrammer/xq\fR - official website
